# CS-340

#### How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

* One requirement of building programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable is using object oriented principles, such as seprating code into classes and functions. This separates distinct logic to allow the code to be reused. This was also useful in reducing the amount of code in a single file. This also contributes to readability. Writing db.read() instead of AAC.animals.find() was cleaner, and allowed the frontend to be reused with minimal modification as well. Using constructor fields allowed my driver to be used with any MongoDB database, since the connections variables need to be passed in when instanced. Another requirement would be using naming, spacing, and commenting conventions for the language. Commenting and naming conventions basically provide documentation for the code, so it's easier to understand, reuse, and maintain. Naming and spacing contribute to readability significantly by providing seperation in less related logic sequences, and by having recognizable strings for seeing variable changes and uses.

#### How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

* As a computer scientist, I approach a problem in a logical and step-wise fashion. First, code runs in a step-wise fashion, and, second, code is all about data logistics. You need to move around data and process it for display or other processes. Computers also process commands one-by-one. I break down ideas or processes into steps, and pick out the data required for those steps. Another technique I use is seperating distinct logic into recallable functions. This allows code to be reused in multiple places. This would be useful for future databases because there would most likely be read and update logic that needs to be reused multiple times. From when I first started coding, this is a much different approach, but for the last 2 years, this is about how everything has gone. I feel like I have a great grasp on the basics of computer science and object oriented principles. 

#### What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

* Computer scientists break down ideas and processes into adaptable steps and data, and then write those steps out as code to move and process data. Data processing and analyzing can be a time consuming task to do by hand. Computer scientists have allowed the retrieval and processing of data to require less time and effort by converting these processes into logical steps that a computer can read. Computers also only make errors in a defined process if the process is at fault. Humans make mistakes often for many reasons. It this case, there were 10,000 documents, and that would take a long time for people to go through each and match them to the set of requirements of a Water Rescue dog.
